In this video, we're gonna go ahead and
use Docker to start up an ActiveMQ
broker. And up on the screen, here you can
see I have a Github page. And, this is a
Dockerfile for the ActiveMQ Artemis
project. I hope I'm saying Artemis
correctly. What this is is it gives us a
ready-made Dockerfile that is all
configured to run ActiveMQ. So, if you
come in here, you can see that there's an
it's a fairly active project and there's
a number of options here. I am not going
to be going through everything. I'm more
interested in setting up ActiveMQ and
connecting to it from Spring Boot. Now,
what's important here when you're in the
enterprise typically what's gonna
happen is you'll have a DevOps team that
is going to be taking care of ActiveMQ
for you. I could do an entire course on
ActiveMQ. So, right now we're just focused
on really introductory and looking at
using ActiveMQ from a Spring and Spring
Boot context. And, what we're gonna do is
set up this Docker image to run it. And
the documentation here is really really
good. You can see we have the Docker
command right here. What this is doing it
saying Docker run interactively. The rm
tells it to remove it upon termination,
remove that container. It's gonna
expose port 8161. That is gonna be
the console and then 61616,
that is the JMS protocol we're working
at the connecting and talking to JMS. Now,
you can see there's a number of
different options here. You can do a lot
of memory tuning and I am not going to
get into any of this. I am primarily
concerned about just running it. So, I'm
gonna come over here.
And, I'm going to go ahead and bring that
up like so and I'm jumping over to the
command line. And, let's go ahead and
paste that like so.
We can see that this is now starting
up and we come up and we are now up and
running. So, which is exactly what I want.
And I'm gonna say a New Tab, Homebrew.
Waiting for login. Now, if I do a docker
ps, we can see that this is up and
running. Let me resize this so it's a
little more easier for us to see.
We reposition that. So, now we can see it
just a docker ps to see the running
containers on my system. And, we are up
and running. The key thing to note is
that the Docker Image itself. You can see
here it's exposed several different
ports. But we've only mapped two of them.
So, we've got the 8161 and then 6163.
And what we can do is right here on the
console, you can see it's got
localhost to 8161. By coming to that, we see this
brings us into the ActiveMQ website. So,
this is actually running in the Docker
container on my local system. You can
see there's a number of things here. But
one of them of interest is the
management console. So, I'm going to
login and you'll be like oh what's the
Username and Password. That is actually
on this previous screen.
You can see that it is artemis.
I probably fat fingered that. That's why we
have pasted that. I would never
remember that string so I'm gonna copy
that as well and it'll paste that in and
we can log in. And now, we can see there's
actually a number of things here.
This is ActiveMQ console so we can see a
lot that's going on here,
things like connections. Of course,
we don't have any Connections, Sessions,
Consumers, Producers, Queues. See that we
don't have anything there. So, this is
like a completely empty ActiveMQ
instance and we're just looking at the
console here. So, if we had messages going
across, this would be a lot more
interesting and we will look at setting
up Spring Boot to do that. But for right
now, we will not be doing that. But the
primary thing I wanted to get across in
this video was one using this Docker
Image and this is from I don't know I
say that Bromo. I will leave the link to
this in the course notes. It seems to be
a very mature and very commonly used
Docker image. It's not officially from
ActiveMQ. But it works out quite nicely
for our purposes that is being actively
maintained. So, we're so great. And again,
if you have additional needs for this,
you can see that you can do everything
for prometheus metrics to cross-origin
logins for the console. So, a lot of stuff
you can do here. I'm not getting into a
complete set of of ActiveMQ. I'm more
interested in showing you how to set up
to an actual broker because I wanna
get away from using that embedded broker
and into something a little bit more
realistic. So again, I did this to run
this. Remember, Docker is a requirement
for the course and covered it. And need
to have Docker installed on your system.
And now, we're seeing nothing running on
those ports. If I come back over
to console, you can see that that command
is an interactive command. And, you can
see this is the console log for
ActiveMQ kind of handy to see. And then,
here I simply did on this command. I did
a docker ps to
list the running containers on my system.
So, this is a come up and we can see that
it's listing on 8161. That is the
port that the council is running on.
So, that console you can see this is
running on 8161 off the localhost. And on
the website, you have username and
password artemis and this simetraehcapa.
I'm not sure how you say that. So, I'd
never remember that string so that's
kind of a strange one. And of course, you
can see here it also shows you how you
can override those. So, if you need to do
that. So, a lot of versatility to this
image. But we are just gonna be using
it to get away from using an embedded
ActiveMQ broker to actually using one
running. And in theory, what I'm showing
you here this ActiveMQ broker that we
are running a Docker container. You
could easily deploy that to VM or some
other machine running Docker and run it
there. So here, we are just emulating
trying to connect to an independent
broker. And we'll be showing you how to
set up a Spring configuration to connect
to this running server in an upcoming
video.